Out of our five game controls, the keyboard input and finger tracking worked best, whereas the trackpad and color inputs did not work as well. The keyboard controls worked well because it is an input that most people are already familiar with when it comes to controlling games, and there is little to no ambiguity in a keyboard press. In terms of our five interaction rules, the keyboard has great visibility and thickness of practice. With the trackpad, it was difficult to determine a suitable threshold. For that reason, it was sometimes reading trackpad finger movements less accurately than intended. The color tracker also had some difficulties because there are so many variations of colors and it was challenging to tell what exactly it was tracking. The process of holding up a color to the screen can become challenging due to the difficulty in defining color. Color control definitely misses the mark on performance because processing color input can differ depending on the person and camera in use. The finger tracking control worked pretty well as the different inputs are fairly distinguishable. Besides this being another quite unfamiliar control that requires a learning curve, the main issue is that if you switch your finger too fast, it has trouble. In fast-paced games, this can be a problem since you need to switch directions quickly in order to perform well. Lastly, our unique controls incorporated both hand tracking and the motion control for the color tracking. This was surprisingly smooth, although there was an interesting discovery that slow moving hand motions were undetectable. Therefore, the hand movements had to be quick and in frame of the camera in order to accurately and quickly move the input controls. Although all of our control functions can process user input to control our game, most are not dependable due to the high error rate in how the inputs are processed.  Controls such as our color tracking and hand tracking had a higher complexity of input processing such that the outputs weren’t always accurate or reliable.  Inputs such as the keyboard are popular because of it’s reliability and straightforwardness as we saw when coding the first keyboard control function.
